US Secretary of State Anthony blink's in
the Turkish Capital anchor and his
latest diplomatic trip of the region is
due to meet foreign minister hakan fidan
to discuss the war in Gaza the visit
comes as relations between Israel and
Tura are strained with both countries
having recalled their envoys Turkish
president reup T erdogan has condemned
Israel's attacks on civilians in Gaza
I'm joined Now by Russell selda who's in
Anchor It seems as though both turkey
and the US positions are quite far apart
relations between turke and Israel have
clearly broken down what can Antony
blinkin hope to achieve with
this indeed Turkish and Americans
positions are more and more Divergent so
just in minutes we're expecting the
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin to
arrive in the building Ministry of
Foreign Affairs of turkey right behind
me and the meeting is expected to start
in menes with his Turkish counterpart
but yes the positions of the both
countries are extremely different so we
know that the top the the top topic on
the agenda of the meeting is the war in
Gaza so Americans are saying a a a
humanitarian P that is what they are
asking Turks to to support however turky
POS Turkish position is quite clear here
turkey says that they it wants an
unconditional ceasefire and the second
issue is the prisoners and the American
side is asking turkey to support the the
this process and to put a pressure on
Hamas that Hamas releases the captives
taken by Hamas on on October 7th but
Turkish position here is also is quite
different than the American position
turkey says that the exchange of the
prisoners must be uh must be mutual so
Hamas releasing the Israeli captives and
Israel releasing the Palestinian
prisoners so we see that there are
several issues that the positions are
diverging here but there is another side
of story today that's happening in in in
in in in Ankara today so it is the cold
treatment from Turks toward the
Secretary of State Anthony blink just
after midnight he has landed in Ankara
and there was not any highlevel Turkish
Diplomat receiving him at the airport
and today we have been informed that
there's not going to be a joint pressure
after the meeting and there is not going
to be a meeting between President
erdogan and Anthony blinkin as well so
all of these are telling us something
usually when the Secretary of State
visits turkey so there will be a joint
pressure between uh him and him and the
the the the the Turkish foreign minister
and the secretary of state will meet
president erogan as well so now these
are not the case so it's staling not
something and just ahead of bink's visit
Turkey has recalled his ambassador to
Israel for the consultations as well and
also president erogan is increasingly
using a harsh language against Israel
and just just recently said that
Netanyahu prime minister of Israel is
finished for him he's done with
Netanyahu and he he has raised him and
so this is just happening ahead of
blink's Wiz it and also president uan
openly criticized us position as well
and even accusing us being complicit in
the crimes committed by Israel against
the Palestinians as well so today we do
not know whether after the meeting for
sure there's not going to be a pressor
but whether there's going to be a
written statement the lead or not and
that's why a little information about
the content of the meeting however if
there's not going to be a releas written
statement at least then we are going to
try hard to get some information from
the sources from the Turkish Ministry
foreign ministry here Russell thanks
very much that's Russell s talking to us
from
Ankara